README.md, before:


<img align=right src="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Img%20Logo/logo_color.png" width="250">

# Electroverse ⚡

<!-------------------- Badges --------------------->
<a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?label=Contributions&message=Welcome&color=0059b3&style=flat-square" height="20" alt="Contributions Welcome"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/graphs/contributors" alt="Contributors">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/Electroversity/Electroverse" /></a>
<a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/LICENSE.md">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?label=license&message=MIT&color=0059b3&style=flat-square" height="20" alt="license">
</a>
<!-- 
- repo size
- contributions welcome
--->

<!-------------------- Summary -------------------->
The Vision for this repository is to engage people be it young students or adults in diving into the realm of Electronics starting with the basic development board i.e., using **Arduino**.


## $\gg$ Contents
- [**Learn and Contribute**](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/edit/main/README.md#learn-and-contribute)
- [**Basics 1**](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201) $\rightarrow$ <samp>Play along individual components.</samp>
  
  <details>
  <ol type='1'>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/01-Digital%20Output#digital-output">Digital Output</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/02-Analog%20Output#analog-output">Analog Output</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/03-Digital%20Input%20with%20Output#digital-input-with-output">Digital Input with Output</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/04-Serial%20Monitor#serial-monitor">Serial Monitor</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/05-Analog%20Input#analog-input">Analog Input</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/06-RGB%20Led#rgb-led">RGB Led</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/07-Servo%20Motor#servo-motor">Servo Motor</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/08-LCD#liquid-crystal-display">Liquid Crystal Display</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/09-Temperature%20Sensor#temperature-sensor">Temperature Sensor</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/10-Photoresistor%20or%20Light%20Dependent%20Resistor#light-dependent-resistor">Photoresistor or Light Dependent Resistor</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/11-Transistor#transistor">Transistor</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/12-Motor%20and%20Relay#dc-motor-and-relay">Motor and Relay</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/13-Shift%20Register#shift-register">Shift Register</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/14-Piezo%20Buzzer#piezo-buzzer">Piezo Buzzer</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/15-7%20Segment%20Display#7-segment-display">7 Segment Display</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/yatharthagr7/Dive-into-Electronics/tree/main/Basics%201/16-Neopixel%2024%20ring#neopixel-24-ring">NeoPixel 24 Ring</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Basics%201/17-PIR%20sensor%20with%20LEDS/README.md#pir-sensor-interface-with-leds">PIR sensor with LEDs</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Basics%201/18-Function%20Generator%20with%20Oscilloscope/README.md#function-generator-with-oscilloscope">Function Generator with Oscilloscope</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/19-Joystick#-joystick-">Joystick</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Basics%201/20-VI%20characteristics%20of%20zener%20diode/README.md#v-i-characteristics-of-zener-diode">VI Characteristics of Zener Diode</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/21-Digital%20Oscilloscope%20with%20Arduino">Digital Oscilloscope with Arduino</a></li>
  </ol>
  </details>
  
- [**Basics 2**](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202) $\rightarrow$ <samp>Interconnection amongst two or more components.</samp>

  <details>
  <ol type='1'>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/01-Blinking%20LED's%20Simultaneously#blinking-leds-simultaneously">Blinking Leds simultaneously</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/02-Led's%20Fade%20In%20and%20Fade%20Out#leds-fading-in-and-out">LEDs fading in and out</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/03-Button%20controlling%203%20Led's#button-controlling-3-leds">Button controlling 3 LEDs</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/04-Potentiometer%20control%20of%202%20Leds#potentiometer-control---opposite-effect">Potentiometer Control over 2 LEDs</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/05-Digital%20Clock%20using%20LCD#digital-clock-using-lcd">Digital Clock using LCD</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/06-Displaying%20long%20texts%20using%20LCD#displaying-long-texts-using-lcd">Displaying Long texts using LCD</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Curovearth/Dive-into-Electronics/tree/main/Basics%202/07-Temperature%20Display%20on%20LCD#readme">Temperature Display on LCD</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/08-Controlling%20LED%20using%20Slideswitch%20and%20Arduino#controlling-led-using-slideswitch-and-arduino">Controlling LED using Slideswitch</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Curovearth/Dive-into-Electronics/tree/main/Basics%202/09-LED%20glow%20according%20to%20distance%20using%20HC-SR04#led-glow-according-to-distance-using-hc-sr04">LED glow according to distance using HC-SR04</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Curovearth/Dive-into-Electronics/blob/main/Basics%202/10-Displaying%20value%20of%20force%20using%20LCD/Readme.md#displaying-value-of-force-using-lcd">Display value of Force using LCD</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/11-Two%20Way%20Traffic%20Control#two-way-traffic-control">Two Traffic Control</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Basics%202/12-LDR%20dependent%20Light%20bulb/README.md#ldr-dependent-light-bulb">LDR dependent Light Bulb</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/13-Flex%20Sensor%20with%20Servo#flex-sensor-control-over-servo-motor">Flex Sensor control over Servo Motor</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/14-IR%20sensor%20with%20LEDs#ir-sensor-interface-with-leds">IR sensor with LEDs</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/15-Neopixel%2024%20ring%20with%20flex%20sensor#neopixel-24-ring-with-flex-sensor">NeoPixel 24 ring with flex sensor</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/16-Charging%20Capacitor#charging-a-capacitor">Charging a Capacitor</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/17-LED%20glow%20according%20to%20distance%20using%20PING%20(28015)#led-glow-according-to-distance-using-ping28015">LED glow according to distance using PING(28015)</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Basics%202/18-Interfacing%20with%20Photodiode/README.md#interfacing-with-photodiode">Interfacing with PhotoDiode</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/19-Arduino%20Oscilloscope%20with%2016x2%20LCD#readme">Arduino Interfacing with Oscilloscope along with LCD</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/20-Moisture%20Sensor#readme">Interfacing with Moisture Sensor</a></li>
  </ol>
  </details>

- [**Intermediate 1**](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%201) $\rightarrow$ <samp>Building up some basic systems.</samp>

  <details>
  <ol type='1'>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%201/01-Displaying%20distance%20on%20LED%20according%20to%20Ultrasonic%20distance%20sensor#displaying-distance-on-led-according-to-ultrasonic-distance-sensor">Displaying Distance on LCD</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%201/02-Smart%20Street%20Lighting%20System#smart-street-lighting-system">Smart Street Lighting System</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%201/03-Staircase%20Lighting%20using%20PIR#staircase-lighting-using-pir">Staircase Lighting System</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Intermediate%201/04-2%20SSD%20Counter/README.md#2-seven-segment-display-interface">Two 7 segment display counter</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%201/05-Resistance%20Meter#resistance-meter">Resistance Meter</a></li>
  </ol>
  </details>

- [**Intermediate 2**](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202) $\rightarrow$ <samp>Spicing up by building complex system.</samp>
  <details>
  <ol type='1'>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/dcba0dd8fa1e12158e94ec12c3a4dc2ee42455bf/Intermediate%201/01-Displaying%20distance%20on%20LED%20according%20to%20Ultrasonic%20distance%20sensor"> Smart Parking System</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202/02-Smart%20Security%20Alarm%20System#readme"> Smart Security Alarm System </a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202/03-Smart%20password%20door%20lock%20system#smart-password-door-lock-system">Smart password door lock system</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202/04-Capacitance%20Meter#capacitance-meter-for-1uf-4700uf"> Capacitance Meter </a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202/05-Temperature%20Alert%20System#temperature-alert-system"> Temperature Alert System </a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202/06-Robotic%20controlled%20using%20flex%20sensor#robotic-hand-controlled-using-flex-sensor"> Robotic Hand control using Flex Sensor </a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Intermediate%202/07-Obstacle%20Avoiding%20Robot%20with%202%20motors/README.md#obstacle-avoidance-robot-using-2-gear-motors"> Obstacle Avoidance Robot </a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202/08-Smart%20irrigation%20system#smart-irrigation-system"> Smart Irrigation System </a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202/09-DC%20motor%20control%20with%20IR%20Remote#readme"> DC Motor control with IR remote </a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202/10-Mobile%20Battery%20Charger%20Circuit#readme"> Mobile Charger Circuit </a></li>
  </ol>
  </details>

- [**Directory.md**](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/DIRECTORY.md) $\rightarrow$ <samp>All the files at one place</samp>
- [**License**](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/edit/main/README.md#license--)

<h2> $\gg$ Learn and Contribute ✨</h2>
<img align=right src="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Img%20Logo/logo_black.png" alt="logo-bw" width="250">

<!-- Add some learning links and a bit about how to start-->

The aim of this repository is for people to learn and contribute simultaneously. Here are some helpful links to get you started with the learning process
- A curated list of <a href="https://github.com/kitspace/awesome-electronics"> awesome resources </a>
- Arduino Learning 
    <details>
    <summary><em>Helpful Links</em></summary>
    
  <!-- To put helpful links -->
     - [Official Arduino Site](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/HomePage)
     - [Adafruit Learn](https://learn.adafruit.com/)
     - [Sparkfun Learn](https://learn.sparkfun.com/tutorials/tags/arduino?page=all)

    </details>
    
- Courses
  <details>
  <summary><em>Awesome courses to refer</em></summary>
  
  <!-- To put some good courses for learning -->
    - [freecodecamp](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zJ-LqeX_fLU)
  
  </details>
  
- Books
  <details>
  <summary><em>Awesome books to have fun</em></summary>
  
  <!-- To put some good books for reference -->
    - [Arduino Starter Guide](https://www.amazon.in/Arduino-Starter-Guide-Kunwar-Imran/dp/9352673425): <em>by Kunwar Imran</em>
  
  </details>

<hr>

Electroverse is a community project. We invite participation through issues and pull requests!

We look forward to seeing contributions from a huge number of electronics enthusiasts. 

> 🙌 **Checkout the contribution guidelines** [**here**](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) in detail.

<h2> $\gg$ License 🗝 </h2>

Do check out [MIT license](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

Update Readme.md with Gitter badge

README.md, after:


<img align=right src="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Img%20Logo/logo_color.png" width="250">

# Electroverse ⚡

<!-------------------- Badges --------------------->
<a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?label=Contributions&message=Welcome&color=0059b3&style=flat-square" height="20" alt="Contributions Welcome"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/graphs/contributors" alt="Contributors">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/Electroversity/Electroverse" /></a>
<a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/LICENSE.md">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?label=license&message=MIT&color=0059b3&style=flat-square" height="20" alt="license">
</a>

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Electroversity-org/community.svg)](https://gitter.im/Electroversity-org/community?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)

<!-------------------- Summary -------------------->
The Vision for this repository is to engage people be it young students or adults in diving into the realm of Electronics starting with the basic development board i.e., using **Arduino**. Repository welcomes community based contributions in terms of new circuit builds and programs.


## $\gg$ Contents
- [**Learn and Contribute**](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/edit/main/README.md#learn-and-contribute)
- [**Basics 1**](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201) $\rightarrow$ <samp>Play along individual components.</samp>
  
  <details>
  <ol type='1'>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/01-Digital%20Output#digital-output">Digital Output</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/02-Analog%20Output#analog-output">Analog Output</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/03-Digital%20Input%20with%20Output#digital-input-with-output">Digital Input with Output</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/04-Serial%20Monitor#serial-monitor">Serial Monitor</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/05-Analog%20Input#analog-input">Analog Input</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/06-RGB%20Led#rgb-led">RGB Led</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/07-Servo%20Motor#servo-motor">Servo Motor</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/08-LCD#liquid-crystal-display">Liquid Crystal Display</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/09-Temperature%20Sensor#temperature-sensor">Temperature Sensor</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/10-Photoresistor%20or%20Light%20Dependent%20Resistor#light-dependent-resistor">Photoresistor or Light Dependent Resistor</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/11-Transistor#transistor">Transistor</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/12-Motor%20and%20Relay#dc-motor-and-relay">Motor and Relay</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/13-Shift%20Register#shift-register">Shift Register</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/14-Piezo%20Buzzer#piezo-buzzer">Piezo Buzzer</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/15-7%20Segment%20Display#7-segment-display">7 Segment Display</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/yatharthagr7/Dive-into-Electronics/tree/main/Basics%201/16-Neopixel%2024%20ring#neopixel-24-ring">NeoPixel 24 Ring</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Basics%201/17-PIR%20sensor%20with%20LEDS/README.md#pir-sensor-interface-with-leds">PIR sensor with LEDs</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Basics%201/18-Function%20Generator%20with%20Oscilloscope/README.md#function-generator-with-oscilloscope">Function Generator with Oscilloscope</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/19-Joystick#-joystick-">Joystick</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Basics%201/20-VI%20characteristics%20of%20zener%20diode/README.md#v-i-characteristics-of-zener-diode">VI Characteristics of Zener Diode</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%201/21-Digital%20Oscilloscope%20with%20Arduino">Digital Oscilloscope with Arduino</a></li>
  </ol>
  </details>
  
- [**Basics 2**](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202) $\rightarrow$ <samp>Interconnection amongst two or more components.</samp>

  <details>
  <ol type='1'>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/01-Blinking%20LED's%20Simultaneously#blinking-leds-simultaneously">Blinking Leds simultaneously</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/02-Led's%20Fade%20In%20and%20Fade%20Out#leds-fading-in-and-out">LEDs fading in and out</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/03-Button%20controlling%203%20Led's#button-controlling-3-leds">Button controlling 3 LEDs</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/04-Potentiometer%20control%20of%202%20Leds#potentiometer-control---opposite-effect">Potentiometer Control over 2 LEDs</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/05-Digital%20Clock%20using%20LCD#digital-clock-using-lcd">Digital Clock using LCD</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/06-Displaying%20long%20texts%20using%20LCD#displaying-long-texts-using-lcd">Displaying Long texts using LCD</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Curovearth/Dive-into-Electronics/tree/main/Basics%202/07-Temperature%20Display%20on%20LCD#readme">Temperature Display on LCD</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/08-Controlling%20LED%20using%20Slideswitch%20and%20Arduino#controlling-led-using-slideswitch-and-arduino">Controlling LED using Slideswitch</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Curovearth/Dive-into-Electronics/tree/main/Basics%202/09-LED%20glow%20according%20to%20distance%20using%20HC-SR04#led-glow-according-to-distance-using-hc-sr04">LED glow according to distance using HC-SR04</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Curovearth/Dive-into-Electronics/blob/main/Basics%202/10-Displaying%20value%20of%20force%20using%20LCD/Readme.md#displaying-value-of-force-using-lcd">Display value of Force using LCD</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/11-Two%20Way%20Traffic%20Control#two-way-traffic-control">Two Traffic Control</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Basics%202/12-LDR%20dependent%20Light%20bulb/README.md#ldr-dependent-light-bulb">LDR dependent Light Bulb</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/13-Flex%20Sensor%20with%20Servo#flex-sensor-control-over-servo-motor">Flex Sensor control over Servo Motor</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/14-IR%20sensor%20with%20LEDs#ir-sensor-interface-with-leds">IR sensor with LEDs</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/15-Neopixel%2024%20ring%20with%20flex%20sensor#neopixel-24-ring-with-flex-sensor">NeoPixel 24 ring with flex sensor</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/16-Charging%20Capacitor#charging-a-capacitor">Charging a Capacitor</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/17-LED%20glow%20according%20to%20distance%20using%20PING%20(28015)#led-glow-according-to-distance-using-ping28015">LED glow according to distance using PING(28015)</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Basics%202/18-Interfacing%20with%20Photodiode/README.md#interfacing-with-photodiode">Interfacing with PhotoDiode</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/19-Arduino%20Oscilloscope%20with%2016x2%20LCD#readme">Arduino Interfacing with Oscilloscope along with LCD</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Basics%202/20-Moisture%20Sensor#readme">Interfacing with Moisture Sensor</a></li>
  </ol>
  </details>

- [**Intermediate 1**](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%201) $\rightarrow$ <samp>Building up some basic systems.</samp>

  <details>
  <ol type='1'>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%201/01-Displaying%20distance%20on%20LED%20according%20to%20Ultrasonic%20distance%20sensor#displaying-distance-on-led-according-to-ultrasonic-distance-sensor">Displaying Distance on LCD</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%201/02-Smart%20Street%20Lighting%20System#smart-street-lighting-system">Smart Street Lighting System</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%201/03-Staircase%20Lighting%20using%20PIR#staircase-lighting-using-pir">Staircase Lighting System</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Intermediate%201/04-2%20SSD%20Counter/README.md#2-seven-segment-display-interface">Two 7 segment display counter</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%201/05-Resistance%20Meter#resistance-meter">Resistance Meter</a></li>
  </ol>
  </details>

- [**Intermediate 2**](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202) $\rightarrow$ <samp>Spicing up by building complex system.</samp>
  <details>
  <ol type='1'>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/dcba0dd8fa1e12158e94ec12c3a4dc2ee42455bf/Intermediate%201/01-Displaying%20distance%20on%20LED%20according%20to%20Ultrasonic%20distance%20sensor"> Smart Parking System</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202/02-Smart%20Security%20Alarm%20System#readme"> Smart Security Alarm System </a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202/03-Smart%20password%20door%20lock%20system#smart-password-door-lock-system">Smart password door lock system</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202/04-Capacitance%20Meter#capacitance-meter-for-1uf-4700uf"> Capacitance Meter </a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202/05-Temperature%20Alert%20System#temperature-alert-system"> Temperature Alert System </a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202/06-Robotic%20controlled%20using%20flex%20sensor#robotic-hand-controlled-using-flex-sensor"> Robotic Hand control using Flex Sensor </a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Intermediate%202/07-Obstacle%20Avoiding%20Robot%20with%202%20motors/README.md#obstacle-avoidance-robot-using-2-gear-motors"> Obstacle Avoidance Robot </a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202/08-Smart%20irrigation%20system#smart-irrigation-system"> Smart Irrigation System </a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202/09-DC%20motor%20control%20with%20IR%20Remote#readme"> DC Motor control with IR remote </a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/tree/main/Intermediate%202/10-Mobile%20Battery%20Charger%20Circuit#readme"> Mobile Charger Circuit </a></li>
  </ol>
  </details>

- [**Directory.md**](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/DIRECTORY.md) $\rightarrow$ <samp>All the files at one place</samp>
- [**Softwares Used**](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/edit/main/README.md#softwares-used)
- [**License**](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/edit/main/README.md#license--)

<h2> $\gg$ Learn and Contribute ✨</h2>
<img align=right src="https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/Img%20Logo/logo_black.png" alt="logo-bw" width="250">

<!-- Add some learning links and a bit about how to start-->

The aim of this repository is for people to learn and contribute simultaneously. Here are some helpful links to get you started with the learning process
- A curated list of <a href="https://github.com/kitspace/awesome-electronics"> awesome resources </a>
- Arduino Learning 
    <details>
    <summary><em>Helpful Links</em></summary>
    
  <!-- To put helpful links -->
     - [Official Arduino Site](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/HomePage)
     - [Adafruit Learn](https://learn.adafruit.com/)
     - [Sparkfun Learn](https://learn.sparkfun.com/tutorials/tags/arduino?page=all)

    </details>
    
- Courses
  <details>
  <summary><em>Awesome courses to refer</em></summary>
  
  <!-- To put some good courses for learning -->
    - [freecodecamp](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zJ-LqeX_fLU)
  
  </details>
  
- Books
  <details>
  <summary><em>Awesome books to have fun</em></summary>
  
  <!-- To put some good books for reference -->
    - [Arduino Starter Guide](https://www.amazon.in/Arduino-Starter-Guide-Kunwar-Imran/dp/9352673425): <em>by Kunwar Imran</em>
  
  </details>

<hr>

Electroverse is a community project. We invite participation through issues and pull requests!

We look forward to seeing contributions from a huge number of electronics enthusiasts. 

<div align=right>

### 🙌 [**Contribute to Electroverse**](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)

</div>

## Softwares Used

There is no boundary in using any particular software but we have mentioned the softwares which we started with below:
- [TinkerCad](https://www.tinkercad.com/)
- [Proteus](https://www.labcenter.com/)
- [Autodesk Fusion 360](https://asean.autodesk.com/products/fusion-360/overview) for 3D PCB
- [Fritzing](https://fritzing.org/)

## $\gg$ License 🗝

Do check out [MIT license](https://github.com/Electroversity/Electroverse/blob/main/LICENSE.md).
